Create newsletter for Oct 2020: newsletter_18_Oct2020.md (#1452)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: communications/newsletters/newsletter_18_Oct2020.md

The Turing Way Newsletter: 19 October 2020

# Call for application for the Book Dash, plans for community share-out event and more updates about our fabulous community!

Hello Turing Way friends!

This month has been busy! Here is what we have been up to:

* 📢 Call for application is open for the upcoming [Book Dash](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/community-handbook/bookdash.html), application **deadline is 22 October 2020**. Participation support grant will be available for the the attendees.
* 🌍 **Hacktoberfest contributions are welcome**. Help us fix bugs and translate our README.md files in your language. Thanks Sophia Batchelor and Paul Owoicho for facilitating these contributions.

> * 📖 We have developed a **tutorial on creating Jupyter Book with _The Turing Way_**. Thanks Martina G. Vilas, Sarah Gibson and Christ Holdgraf for your contributions.

Author: ```suggestion
* 📖 We have developed a **tutorial on creating Jupyter Book with _The Turing Way_**. Thanks, Martina G. Vilas, Sarah Gibson and Chris Holdgraf for your contributions.
```

* 🗓 We are planning a **community share-out event on 13 November 2020**. Have an idea to make this event truly inclusive for you? Connect with us.

> See you at one of the community meetings in November!

Author: ```suggestion
See you at one of the community meetings soon!
```

If you have participated in _The Turing Way_ with the support of your organisation, we invite you to expand this section by adding your details.

## Contributor in focus: Paul Owoicho

We are delighted to introduce our Google Season of Doc (GSoD) intern, Paul Owoicho.
Paul has a BSc in Software Engineering from the American University of Nigeria, and an MSc in Data Science from the University of Glasgow. 
He will be working with us for the next few months in the role of a technical writer, providing editorial support in the project. 
Together with Neha Moppen, he is participating in Open Life science with a project to embed accessibility in _The Turing Way_ guide, where he will receive training and mentorship on Open Science and community skills ([project detail](https://openlifesci.org/ols-2/projects-participants/)).

![Portrait image of Paul Owoicho](images/Paul-Oct2020.png)

In his words:
> The Turing Way is my first foray into open source and has been a fantastic learning experience. 
> Not only have I gained a deeper understanding and appreciation for how GitHub works, but I am also learning to prioritise sustainability and empowerment in the work that I do. 

> > Soon, I hope to begin a PhD that explores how conversational search can be made more effective with the use of clarifying questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  I am also super grateful for the opportunity to work with people (who I may not have met otherwise) from around the world.
```

  * Kirstie Whitaker shared a [Tweet thread](https://twitter.com/kirstie_j/status/1316295588296753152?s=20) with a background on how this article was developed by the authors.

### Podcast recommendation

Ed Chalstrey invited Sarah Gibson and Kirstie Whitaker to be featured on The Turing Podcast's recent episode, published under the title [Reproducible Data science: How hard can it be?](https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/reproducible-data-science-how-hard-can-it-be/id1504860303?i=1000492423241). 
In this episode, Kirstie and Sarah discuss how they facilitate research reproducibility through their work.
 
![Screenshot of a tweet by Sarah Gibson](images/Tweet-SG-Oct2020.png) 

*[Sarah Gibson Tweets](https://twitter.com/drsarahlgibson/status/1309489395175751690?s=20) about the Turing Podcast episode where Ed invited her and Kirstie to talk about the reproducibility of scientific research.*

## Upcoming and past events

### Community share-out event on 13 November 2020

> On the last day of the Book Dash event, 13 November, we will host community share-out events, which will be multiple open calls to celebrate contributions made by our community members.

Author: ```suggestion
On the last day of the Book Dash event, 13 November, we will host community share-out events, which will be a series of open calls to celebrate contributions made by our community members and add your highlights to our [Contributors Record](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/afterword/contributors-record.html).
```

> These contributions won’t only include the content developed by our Book Dash attendees, but everyone is invited to join us on the day to share their work in _The Turing Way_ and get to know each other.

Author: ```suggestion
These contributions won’t only include the content developed by our Book Dash attendees, but each of you is invited to join us on the day to share their work in _The Turing Way_ and get to know each other.
```
